# Wargroove 2 Damage Calculatror
#### Video Demo: 
#### Description:
Wargroove is a turn based strategy game. Kinda similar to Chess in the sense that you are moving pieces across a grid, but each one of those units has their own health value and deal different amounts of damamge to different unit types, but along with that different tiles have defense values and units can do critical hits when they meet certain conditions.

So for my CsS50 final project I decided to make a website that can calculate the damage values. The user can input the unit they are attacking with along with it's health, the defence value of the tile they are standing on along with the same values for the unit they are attacking and the website will calculate the damage the user's unit will do. So for example, if I have a "soldier" unit with 85% health attacking a "dog" unit with 75% health and they are both on tiles that provide 1 sheild of defence, my calculator will return the damamge that the soldier will do to the dog and vice versa (which in this case is 39% damamge to the dog and 26% damamge to the soldier). Another goal I had was to try and keep the calculator as aethetically similar and pleasing as Wargroove 2 is. I found a nice pixel-style font on Google Fonts called Pixelfy and edited to font to have slightly nicer characters in certain spots (Pixelfy's '5' look more like an upside down 's' by default) and I am reallky pleased with how the end result turned out.

I wanted to keep this project as simple as possible as well, as my end goal is for it to be easy to host and have good enough SEO for any Wargroove 2 player to easily find it. As a result I ended up not using React and just went with vanilla Javascript for the logic. However, I have recently grown fond of Tailwind CSS and ended up using it for this project as well. I really like Tailwind as you get a bunch of premade classes similar to Bootstrap, but you also have a lot more freedom and customization that you can do in comparison. Tailwind accomplishes this by having you make a tailwind.config.js file on the root folder, and then telling Tailwind what files you want to have it automatically scan for Tailwind classes and what file you want it to write those classes to. In my case, I have Tailwwind set up to look at all the files under the "scripts" folder and index.html. I also have an "input.css" folder under my main CSS folder that Tailwind will automatically add to style.css for the few times where I need to use vanilla CSS as Tailwind doesn't cover something or it makes the code hard to read. Like in this case I used vanilla CSS for the scrolling background, custom font, and customizing my checkboxes. In order to get Tailwind set up for this project, I had to also set up NPM, hence why there is a "node_modules" folder on the root of the project as well.

 As for the Javascript files, they are located in a folder called "scripts" and I have a "main.js" that holds all the functions for showing or hiding menus, plus the functions to calculate damage. This is done by a single global object I have called "formState" that holds all the values for the attacking and defending unit and whenever the user clicks on an option, the corresponding function will trigger that will update the proper value in formState and then pass formState's properties into a calculate damamge funtion, which then updates the results section of the form on index.html to show the values any time a user makes changes. I also have a javascript file called "unit.js" that is a class file that gets imported into main.js. It's whole purpose is to just define the unit class, and then declare all the games units with their name, unit type, and the damamge they do to other units (which I have stored in seperate objects called xMAtrix, where x is the unit name).

 Lastly, I have the assets folder. Since I was going for a pixel art look, alot of the elements are made using images, like for the units, the pixelated arrows that show the damamge, or a small pattern for the scrolling background. The unit sprites and background tile are under "images", and the arrows are under "GUI". "font" and "favicons" are also where the custom font and favicon, which is a cutout of one of the commanders sprites with a green color to represent an inside jokes between my friends and I. I do have some empty folders for the other Wargroove 2 factions under "sprites" as my original intention was to also allow the user to swap their faction and colors, but since all the factions play the same and just have different sprites, and I spent more work cropping out sprites for the 2 main factions than I did programming, this is something I decided to leave for the future. 